Happy Hacker Digest Feb.13, 1997 
____________________________________ 
This is a moderated list for discussions of *legal* hacking. Moderator is 
Carolyn Meinel. Please don't send us anything you wouldn't email to your 
friendly neighborhood narc, OK? Send posts to . Better 
yet, 
To subscribe or unsubscribe, use the subscribe boxes on the menubar. If you decide you just want to 
use the forum and not get these mailings, I promise my feelings won't get 
hurt if you unsubscribe from this list. 
Happy hacking --"National security" and "drugs" have become the root 
passwords to the US Constitution! 
---------------------------------------------------------

URL O' the Day: http://www.wired.com/news/technology/story/1993.html See 
another Bulmash on the warpath against spam!

Finger O' the Day: Quake fans, give the command "finger 
johnc@idsoftware.com" for a real eye opener.

Table of Contents

Denial of Service Attack Against FCC 
Inside Dope on Swedish Hack Contest 
Hacker Handles 
Security Hole? 
SMPT Question 
Syn Flood Answer 
Freefall User Alert 
More Flames

DENIAL OF SERVICE ATTACK AGAINST FCC

Moderator: Please stop emailing me about how we all have to desperately 
email the FCC or else they may allow local phone companies to impose per 
minute charges on Internet access. Yes, there was some truth to the alerts 
you sent me. But the deadline for comments has passed. The telcos have lost. 
Now stop those messages!

Michelle V. Rafter in a Reuters Report, February 13 at 10:03 am EST, says 
that the Federal Communications Commission consideration of the [RBOC's] 
levying of access fees on Internet providers has generated much consumer 
activity. The FCC received more than 80,000 messages from consumers in one 
four-day period last week. This was an unprecedented amount for a single 
subject over a four-day period. She reports that mail continues to arrive at 
a rate of 30 message per minute and, at one point, temporarily crashed the 
e-mail server.

But today I got an email with an altered deadline for comments. This 
suggests malicious intent. Also, many of the email messages I have been 
spammed with on this topic had no deadlines for submission of comments to 
the FCC. You should beware of any email that urges you to send out email to 
anyone else, especially when there is no "drop dead" date. Good Times 
syndrome. Folks, this has become just one more sleazy denial of service attack.

D00dz, NEVER, NEVER, NEVER act on an email warning without checking up on it 
yourself. You can check out the FCC Web site where discussions of changes in 
regulations are posted: http://www.fcc.gov/isp.html.

For debate on this issue, see "yes" side at 
http://www.fcc.gov/Bureaus/Common_Carrier/Comments/access_reform/ 
The No side: http://www.econtech.com/exec.htm

INSIDE DOPE ON SWEDISH HACK CONTEST

From: bbuster@succeed.net (Bronc Buster!!!) 
Subject: Please Hack this System?

OK, I know everyone out there has heard about this server in Sweden that is 
begging to get hacked (http://hacke.infinit.se/indexeng.html <-- The Engilsh 
Site). I will tell you all now, don't waste your time. Although they have 
made this server a Public Domain and given the proper legal disclaimers to 
the authorities on placed them on their sites, this site (I'm 99% sure) CAN 
NOT be hacked into. "What?" you say. Bronc Buster saying a site is 
UNhackable? Well this site in running on a MAC. Here is the server information:

(Information Provided by THEM!)

Computer: Power Mac 8500/150 with 64 megs of RAM, 2 gig HD. 
Network: Standard Ethernet on a 10 baseT LAN. 
Server: WebSTAR 2.0 with minimun plug-ins. 
Operating System: Mac OS 7.6 running Apple Script. The Open Transport has 
been                   upgraded to 1.1.2 
Domain: hacke.infinit.se, IP 195.198.39.110

For those of you not familiar with a Mac web server, let me give you a quick 
crash course. It's more like a Windows web server than a Unix web server (to 
put into Windows terms). The Mac server has NO telnet process/program to 
attach to, and FTPs are not possible. Because of this lack of a "shell" to 
get into, so you may change their web site and get all that money, it leaves 
very little possibilities for getting attached to their server, besides HTTP. 
In addition to this, if you COULD somehow attach, you would need to be 
running a Mac, with AppleTalk of course, and be using a Mac TCP/IP stack. 
The only "hole" found on this server was the cgi-bin directory, which on a 
Mac server is not a hole at all.

I'm not a Mac lover by any means, BUT their Web Servers are the most secure 
on the net today and I'd put one of them up against a Unix system any day. 
So go back to school, or work and forget about this 10,000 whatevers (it's 
Swedish money) because I bet they don't even have it. If someone does hack 
it, I'll eat a bug....... 
 

Regards                   \__ ^^ __/ 
   BB                        X  X 
                             \  / 
                              \/

HACKER HANDLES

From: "Matt . Wolak" <mwolak@wesleyan.edu> 
Subject: handle

 Just pick something you are interested in, and I like something 
just obscure enough so that it's meaning is only really obvious to someone 
who is in to the same things as you. Mine, for example, is Etaon Rish. I 
enjoy cryptography and cryptology beyond belief. There are other reasons 
you would know this, but those are (in order) the 9 most common letters in 
the English alphabet. It started as a mnemonic device for me when I was 
first getting into the making and breaking of codes. It also sounds cool. 
 Etaon Rish

SECURITY HOLE?

From: Noah Goldberg <mtribe@duo-county.com>

Hi,

Usually when I dial my ISP the server immediately asks for my user-id 
and password.  But occasionally when I dial it says "Connected to 
Multi-Modem Manager" first and rejects my password.  Is this a possible 
security hole?  Could I have connected to a different machine?  I'm not 
trying to hack into my ISP, just curious as to why this would happen.

Thanks, 
Noah

SMPT QUESTION

Anonymous post:

Dear Carolyn,

I was wondering how the heck can I attach a file if I telnet to a port on a 
distant computer to send e-mail.

Moderator: I advise doing a Web search with key words "SMPT" and "RFC" .

SYN FLOOD ANSWER

From: Brad Pauly <paulyb@colorado.edu>

Check out Phrack Magazine volume seven, issue 48, file 13: Project Neptune. 
www.fc.net/phrack/files/48/p48-13.html

-bp

Moderator's note: That Phrack code needs two modifications to actually work. 
What the newbie sees happening when it runs as posted in Phrack is a 
delicious joke. Folks, remember, sysn flooding is in most places an illegal 
denial of service attack.

FREEFALL USER ALERT

Approved-By: aleph1@UNDERGROUND.ORG 
Date:  Wed, 12 Feb 1997 09:27:55 -0600 
Reply-To: Aleph One <aleph1@DFW.NET> 
Sender: Bugtraq List <BUGTRAQ@netspace.org> 
From: Aleph One <aleph1@DFW.NET> 
Subject:      Security Advisory - Recent compromise of freefall.freebsd.org 
To: BUGTRAQ@netspace.org

To: announce@freebsd.org 
Subject: Security Advisory - Recent compromise of freefall.freebsd.org 
Date: Tue, 11 Feb 1997 20:46:45 -0800 
Message-ID: <12352.855722805@time.cdrom.com> 
From: "Jordan K. Hubbard" <jkh@time.cdrom.com>

Overview:

The following advisory documents a recent security compromise on 
freefall.freebsd.org, the FreeBSD Project's master source repository 
machine, discussing some of the potential ramifications of the event 
and the recovery measures which are being carried out in its 
aftermath.

Since investigation is still ongoing and at least one law enforcement 
agency is currently involved, some details will, of necessity, need to 
be deliberately vague or even omitted entirely for now.  We apologize 
for this and promise to keep everyone as up-to-date as possible on 
events as the situation progresses, releasing information as we're 
allowed and deem it prudent.

Anyone with an account on freefall.freebsd.org is strongly advised to 
*CHANGE THEIR PASSWORD*, both on freefall and on any other machines 
where the same password is used.  Based on the Trojan horses we found, 
you should assume that your password was grabbed and transmitted to a 
hostile 3rd party if you logged in at any time on or after January 
18th, 1997.  It does not matter if you logged in with ssh or with 
telnet, you should assume that your password has been collected. 
Furthermore, if you used ssh, rlogin or telnet on freefall to go *out* 
to other machines then you should assume that password information 
given to these programs was also compromised. 
 

Details:

The break-ins occurred on at least 2 cdrom.com machines, root being 
compromised in both instances, and numerous system binaries had Trojan 
horses inserted for the purpose of gathering and sending back password 
information.  The method of entry used by the attacker(s) is not so 
important given that both systems were vulnerable to several 
significant, now known, security exploits at the time and any one of 
them could have been used to gain entry & root privilege.  What is 
more interesting about this attack is the sophistication of the Trojan 
horses left behind, assembled as they were from a rather sophisticated 
"kit" put together by someone who clearly knew their way around a BSD 
system.  This told us that we should not take this attack as just 
another incident of juvenile pranksterism but as something rather 
more serious.

Since the CVS master repository machine was attacked, it would also be 
an immediate and obvious concern that the intruder may have taken 
advantage of their temporary root privileges to make modifications to 
the FreeBSD master source repository, possibly to introduce back-doors 
for later use or cause deliberate embarrassment by introducing 
catastrophic failure modes.

Fortunately, neither scenario is as fearsome as it might seem.  For 
one thing, the CVS repository is replicated on hundreds of machines 
now, all syncing up with varying degrees of (deliberate) latency, and 
"CTM deltas" are also made continuously from this repository.  These 
streams of CTM information can show exactly what changed from moment 
to moment in the source tree, entirely independently of the CVS 
mechanisms (which might be compromised) for doing so.

There is also the fact that there are many, many eyes on the FreeBSD 
source tree right now, more than most of us probably ever thought 
possible in the beginning, and it's hard to believe that someone would 
be able to slip a significant attack past the eyes of that many 
people, watching their daily CTM deltas come by and reviewing, as they 
do, each change with heavy skepticism before bringing it into their 
own source trees.  To date, no reports of anything suspicious have 
been received. 
 

In summary:

We will continue to review our CTM deltas and we will look for signs 
of skullduggery, but we frankly feel that the real dangers here lie 
not so much in recently introduced changes, which are easily reviewed 
for and caught, but in those accidental security holes which have been 
buried in the BSD code for months or possibly years.  Since security 
seems to have become the theme of the month, and many people have 
volunteered (in light of our recent 2.1.6 security fracas) to begin a 
much more serious and comprehensive security audit, we will take 
advantage of this opportunity to see that all code in the FreeBSD 
source tree, old and new alike, is reviewed line by line for buffer 
overflows, unguarded copies, back doors, whatever.  We may not make it 
through every last byte, but we can certainly focus on the "hot spots" 
(suid programs and system utilities) and do our best to prevent 
problems like those which caused our recent headaches from reoccurring.

This advisory is simply to inform those people who have used freefall 
in the last 40 days or so that they should change their passwords and 
to explain to people that yes, there was a break-in to 
freefall.freebsd.org and yes, we're aware of the issues this raises, 
both now and in the immediate future, and that we will be exerting 
significant effort over the next few weeks in dealing aggressively 
with security issues, both in FreeBSD and on the FreeBSD project 
machines.

MORE FLAMES

From: Jason Lenny <lucid@yakima.net> 
To: Artimage <nelsonl@cs.purdue.edu> 
cc: "Carolyn P. Meinel" <>, dc-stuff@dis.org 
Subject: Re: Happy Hacker Digest, Feb.10, 1997

On Tue, 11 Feb 1997, Artimage wrote:

> No, that is not what I meant. I think you should ask the person who's page 
> it is to take it down, not the owner of the box. Just because a person has 
> a tool up doesn't make him a "bad guy", and it should be that users 
> decision as to whether to remove the item or not. Otherwise they'll just 
> move to a box that allows it. And if you create an environment where people 
> will not host these types of pages, then I'll just put up a box where they 
> can. Once again, I don't like the programs, but I won't allow you to 
> pressure people off the net.

I'm gonna further this point a bit..

Not everyone is going to download these for "evil" purposes, Carolyn. 
People who are writing programs that will keep these programs from working 
need to see the source (many of the mail-bomb programs come with source, 
and it's not to hard to disassemble most of these).  It would be like 
trying to make a bullet-proof vest without ever seeing a bullet.

 -Lucid

"There are two major products that come out of Berkeley: LSD and UNIX. 
We don't believe this to be a coincidence." - Jeremy S. Anderson

"The Internet is a good tool for getting on the net." - Bob Dole

*Finger for PGP Public Key for ALL secure transmissions.*

Moderator: The Web sites I am trying to take down do not offer code for 
intellectual analysis efforts. They make email bomb programs available for 
use by clueless fools at the click of a mouse.

If you want to study how email bomb programs work, just check out email 
forging topics in the Hackers forum at www.infowar.com or in the Happy 
Hacker Digests also archived at those sites. Look for posts by k1neTiK and 
Bronc Buster.

However, I have censored even the names of the most newbie-friendly email 
bomb programs so as to inhibit them being used in Web searches. Sorry, until 
we get better technological defenses against them, I am treating the email 
bomb fad as a serious problem.

In the meantime, I am archiving gifs of the worst email bomb program 
download sites. 
Carolyn Meinel 
M/B Research -- The Technology Brokers  
